Add Secure Boot info, improve HTTP UEFI Boot (#384)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/doc-Planning_Guide/topics/Provisioning_Concepts.adoc

* Ensure that the UDP ports 67 and 68 are accessible by the client so that the client can send and receive a DHCP request and offer.

* Ensure that the TCP port 8000 is open for the client to download the bootloader and Kickstart templates from the {SmartProxy}.

* Ensure that the TCP port {smartproxy_port} is open for the client to download the bootloader from the {SmartProxy} using the HTTPS protocol.

* Ensure that the subnet that functions as the host's provisioning interface has the following requirements:
+
** a DHCP {SmartProxy}
** a HTTP Boot {SmartProxy}
** a TFTP {SmartProxy}
** a Templates {SmartProxy}

* Update the `grub2-efi` package to the latest version and execute the installer to copy the recent bootloader from `/boot` into `/var/lib/tftpboot` directory:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {package-install-project} grub2-efi
# {foreman-installer}
----

==== HTTP Booting Requirements with unmanaged DHCP
To provision machines through HTTP booting without managed DHCP ensure that you meet the following requirements:

.Client requirements

> * HTTP UEFI Boot URL must be set to one of:
> ** `http://{smartproxy.example.com}:8000
> ** `https://{smartproxy.example.com}:{smartproxy_port}
> * Ensure that your client has access to the DHCP and DNS servers.
> * Ensure that your client has access to the HTTP UEFI Boot {SmartProxy}.
> * Ensure that all the network-based firewalls are configured to allow clients on the subnet to access the {SmartProxy}.
> For more information, see xref:figu-Satellite_Topology_with_Isolated_Capsule[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Ensure that your environment has the following client-side configurations:

* The HTTP UEFI Boot URL must be set to one of the following URLs:
** `http://{smartproxy.example.com}:8000
** `https://{smartproxy.example.com}:{smartproxy_port}
* Your client has access to the DHCP and DNS servers.
* Your client has access to the HTTP UEFI Boot {SmartProxy}.
* All the network-based firewalls are configured to allow clients on the subnet to access the {SmartProxy}.
For more information, see xref:figu-Satellite_Topology_with_Isolated_Capsule[].
```

Although TFTP protocol is not used for HTTP UEFI Booting, {Project} use TFTP {SmartProxy} API to deploy bootloader configuration.

* Ensure that both {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxy} have DNS configured and are able to resolve provisioned host names.

* Ensure that the UDP ports 67 and 68 are accessible by the client so that the client can send and receive a DHCP request and offer.

* Ensure that the TCP port 8000 is open for the client to download bootloader and Kickstart templates from the {SmartProxy}.

* Ensure that the TCP port {smartproxy_port} is open for the client to download the bootloader from the {SmartProxy} via HTTPS protocol.

* Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a HTTP Boot {SmartProxy} set.

* Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a TFTP {SmartProxy} set.

* Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a Templates {SmartProxy} set.

* Update the `grub2-efi` package to the latest version and execute the installer to copy the recent bootloader from the `/boot` directory into the `/var/lib/tftpboot` directory:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {package-install-project} grub2-efi
# {foreman-installer}

> ----

Reviewer: Because there are so many deletions, I can't apply the change here. But please do the same.

ifeval::["{build}" != "satellite"]
=== Secure Boot

When {Project} is installed on {RHEL} or compatible operating systems using  `{foreman-installer}`, grub2 and shim bootloaders that are signed by Red Hat are deployed into the TFTP and HTTP UEFI Boot directory. PXE loader options named "SecureBoot" configure hosts to load `shim.efi`.

On Debian and Ubuntu operating systems, the grub2 bootloader is created using the `grub2-mkimage` unsigned. To perform the Secure Boot, the bootloader must be manually signed and key enrolled into the EFI firmware. Alternatively, grub2 from Ubuntu or {RHEL} can be copied to perform booting.

> Grub2 in {RHEL} 8.0-8.3 were updated to mitigate [Boot Hole Vulnerability](https://access.redhat.com/security/vulnerabilities/grub2bootloader) and keys of existing {RHEL} kernels were invalidated. To boot any of the affected {RHEL} kernel (or OS installer), you must enrol keys manually into the EFI firmware for each host:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grub2 in {RHEL} 8.0-8.3 were updated to mitigate [Boot Hole Vulnerability](https://access.redhat.com/security/vulnerabilities/grub2bootloader) and keys of existing {RHEL} kernels were invalidated. To boot any of the affected {RHEL} kernel (or OS installer), you must enroll keys manually into the EFI firmware for each host:
```

* Ensure that your client has access to the HTTP UEFI Boot {SmartProxy}.

.Network requirements

* Optional: If the host and the DHCP server are separated by a router, configure the DHCP relay agent and point to the DHCP server.

.{Project} requirements

Although TFTP protocol is not used for HTTP UEFI Booting, {Project} use TFTP {SmartProxy} API to deploy bootloader configuration.

* Ensure that both {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxy} have DNS configured and are able to resolve provisioned host names.

* Ensure that the UDP ports 67 and 68 are accessible by the client so that the client can send and receive a DHCP request and offer.

* Ensure that the TCP port 8000 is open for the client to download bootloader and Kickstart templates from the {SmartProxy}.

* Ensure that the TCP port {smartproxy_port} is open for the client to download bootloader from the {SmartProxy} via HTTPS protocol.

* Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a DHCP {SmartProxy} set.

* Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a HTTP Boot {SmartProxy} set.

* Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a TFTP {SmartProxy} set.

> * Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a Templates {SmartProxy} set.

Reviewer: Can you rewrite this, like this: 

Ensure that the subnet that functions as the host's provisioning interface has the following requirements:

* a DHCP {SmartProxy}
* a HTTP Boot {SmartProxy}
*  a TFTP {SmartProxy}
* a Templates {SmartProxy}

Author: Sure, do you think this is the correct syntax:

```
* Ensure that the subnet that functions as the host's provisioning interface has the following requirements:
+
** a DHCP {SmartProxy}
** a HTTP Boot {SmartProxy}
** a TFTP {SmartProxy}
** a Templates {SmartProxy}
```

Reviewer: No, double  bullets are the worst ;-) 
If you're OK with it, I'll rewrite this for you tomorrow and when you're back from PTO we can talk !

** `http://{smartproxy.example.com}:8000
** `https://{smartproxy.example.com}:{smartproxy_port}
* Ensure that your client has access to the DHCP and DNS servers.
* Ensure that your client has access to the HTTP UEFI Boot {SmartProxy}.
* Ensure that all the network-based firewalls are configured to allow clients on the subnet to access the {SmartProxy}.
For more information, see xref:figu-Satellite_Topology_with_Isolated_Capsule[].

.Network requirements

* An unmanaged DHCP server available for clients.
* An unmanaged DNS server available for clients. In case DNS is not available, use IP address to configure clients.

.{Project} requirements

Although TFTP protocol is not used for HTTP UEFI Booting, {Project} use TFTP {SmartProxy} API to deploy bootloader configuration.

* Ensure that both {ProjectServer} and {SmartProxy} have DNS configured and are able to resolve provisioned host names.

* Ensure that the UDP ports 67 and 68 are accessible by the client so that the client can send and receive a DHCP request and offer.

* Ensure that the TCP port 8000 is open for the client to download bootloader and Kickstart templates from the {SmartProxy}.

> * Ensure that the TCP port {smartproxy_port} is open for the client to download bootloader from the {SmartProxy} via HTTPS protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure that the TCP port {smartproxy_port} is open for the client to download the bootloader from the {SmartProxy} via HTTPS protocol.
```

* Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a HTTP Boot {SmartProxy} set.

* Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a TFTP {SmartProxy} set.

* Ensure that the host provisioning interface subnet has a Templates {SmartProxy} set.

> * Update the `grub2-efi` package to the latest version and execute the installer to copy the recent bootloader from `/boot` into `/var/lib/tftpboot` directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update the `grub2-efi` package to the latest version and execute the installer to copy the recent bootloader from the `/boot` directory into the `/var/lib/tftpboot` directory:
```

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {package-install-project} grub2-efi
# {foreman-installer}
----

ifeval::["{build}" != "satellite"]
=== Secure Boot

> When {Project} is installed on {RHEL} or compatible operating systems via {foreman-installer}, grub2 and shim bootloaders signed by Red Hat are deployed into TFTP and HTTP UEFI Boot directory. PXE loader options named "SecureBoot" configure hosts to load `shim.efi`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When {Project} is installed on {RHEL} or compatible operating systems using  `{foreman-installer}`, grub2 and shim bootloaders that are signed by Red Hat are deployed into the TFTP and HTTP UEFI Boot directory. PXE loader options named "SecureBoot" configure hosts to load `shim.efi`.
```

> On Debian and Ubuntu operating systems, grub2 bootloader is created via `grub2-mkimage` unsigned. In order to perform Secure Boot, the bootloader must be manually signed and key enrolled into EFI firmware. Alternatively, grub2 from Ubuntu or {RHEL} can be copied to perform booting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Debian and Ubuntu operating systems, the grub2 bootloader is created using the `grub2-mkimage` unsigned. To perform the Secure Boot, the bootloader must be manually signed and key enrolled into the EFI firmware. Alternatively, grub2 from Ubuntu or {RHEL} can be copied to perform booting.
```

> Grub2 in {RHEL} 8.0-8.3 were updated to mitigate [Boot Hole Vulnerability](https://access.redhat.com/security/vulnerabilities/grub2bootloader) and keys of existing {RHEL} kernels were invalidated. To boot any of the affected {RHEL} kernel (or OS installer), keys must be manually enrolled into the EFI firmware for each host:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grub2 in {RHEL} 8.0-8.3 were updated to mitigate [Boot Hole Vulnerability](https://access.redhat.com/security/vulnerabilities/grub2bootloader) and keys of existing {RHEL} kernels were invalidated. To boot any of the affected {RHEL} kernel (or OS installer), you must enrol keys manually into the EFI firmware for each host:
```
